"Global growth momentum slowed down led by moderation in economic activities in the US and China. US Nonfarm payroll (NFP) fell to near 3-year lows in July 2024 with unemployment rate rising to 4.3% (from 4.1% in June 2024). Also, US’s PMIs eased further, and interest sensitive housing sector remained under pressure. On the other hand, China’s manufacturing PMI also dipped in to contractionary territory while the pace of growth in manufacturing and infrastructure investments trended lower. Moreover, its real estate sector remained weak, and industrial production slowed down. Economic activity in the Eurozone continues to remain lack luster. Inflation in the U.S. inched lower driven by a broad-based easing in goods, housing and services, while it remained subdued in China.",
    "The U.S. Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) kept its monetary policy unchanged in July 2024 but commentary was relatively dovish. Post the NFP data in August, US rate cut expectations have risen sharply and based on Fed Fund future rates, market is now factoring 125 bps rate cut by 31 December 2024 (as on 5th August 2024). Most other central banks are already in rate cutting mode with UK and China reducing rates during July 2024. However, Bank of Japan was the exception which raised rates by 15 bps to 0.25% during the month and reduced its quantum of security buying.",
    "Indian economic activity improves sequentially: Indian economic activity witnessed healthy growth during the month. While PMIs continue to remain well into the expansionary zone, retail auto sales of 2W & 4W, and GST collections also picked up during the month. Further, power demand, digital spending and employment also improved / remained healthy. Tractor sales, however, continue to contract on YOY basis.",
    "India’s economic activity is showing resilience despite global weakness. India’s growth in FY25 is expected to remain steady, though lower than FY24, supported by robust industrial and investment activities along with resilient services sector and urban consumption. Outlook on rural recovery remains optimistic in view of good progress of monsoon during the month.",
    "Trade deficit eases slightly, likely to remain range bound: Trade deficit declined month on month in June 2024 primarily driven by sharp fall in oil imports (USD 15 bln vs ~USD 20 bln in May). This was marginally offset driven by higher net NONG imports. NONG exports declined on back of lower engineering and rice exports which was partially set off by lower import of transport equipments."
  